Assignment 2: Deploy a RESTful Back-end
---
*Due Tuesday Sep 5th at midnight*

This assignment is the first step towards building a functional backend for
the final project - building a receipt storage and indexing service.  The goal of this assignment 
is to familiarize you with REST architecture, the CircleCI Continuous Integration tool, and 
the mechanism by which one can deploy software to the cloud.

We will not worry about session management and access control---an user can read / write any receipt. 
We will not worry about setting up an external database - we will use H2 (which 
supports the MySQL SQL Dialect).

To complete the assignment you must complete the following:
1. Configure CircleCI to run on the `master` branch in your repo
2. Add a CircleCI build-status badge to README.md
3. Build a RESTful API that supports operations on `receipts` and `tags`
4. Deploy the API to AWS
5. Submit

## 1. Configuring CircleCI
[CircleCI](http://circleci.com/) is a cloud-based tool for building software.  CircleCI seamlessly integrates with 
GitHub to detect when a change is made, at which point CircleCI will execute a series of build-steps that are 
defined in the file `.circleci/config.yml` which must be added to your GitHub repository. 

When you initially log into CircleCI you should see a [Dashboard](https://circleci.com/dashboard) showing recent builds.  
A **Projects** menu-option on the left-hand side will help you configure your repo.  Choose 
**Add Project**, select the repository you want to setup by clicking **Setup Project** next to your repository name, and 
finally select the OS (linux), Platform (2.0) and Language (Gradle/Java).  

Circle will reward your efforts here by preparing a sample `config.yml` along with detailed instructions you should 
follow carefully to get your CI system setup.  The sample `config.yml` will work without modification, however you 
should not be afraid to dive into the excellent [CircleCI Docs](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/) to add custom 
build steps such as building a docker-image.

Once CircleCI is setup, every time you push changes to GitHub CircleCI will detect the change and will follow the steps
defined in `config.yml`.  By should always include *checking out the new code* and *running the tests*.  `build.gradle` 
in the `skeleton` repo is already setup to run any tests that are annotated with `@Test`.  You can check this yourself 
by running the `test` target e.g. `./gradlew test`.  

## 2. Setting up a CircleCI build status badge
**Important** - adding your build status badge to `README.md` in the class GitHub is the *only* way to get credit for 
setting up CircleCI.  You can get the code for *your badge* by copying it from the **Status Badges** section of the 
**Settings** page for your project in CircleCI.  

To get credit for the assignment you must add the badge as a suffix to your line in the **Students** section 
of the `README.md`, you must write at least one non-trivial test, and CircleCI must run the test + pass.

A working test is available in the `skeleton` project at `src/test/java/api/CreateReceiptRequestTest.java`

## 3. Build a RESTful API 
The API we are building is relatively simple, and only supports operations on two 
resources: `receipts` and `tags`.  The basic idea is that one should be able to create new 
receipts, *categorize* them by using user-defined *tags*, and retrieve receipts *by-tag*. 
 
Endpoints required to support this functionality with inputs and outputs are summarized below.  All endpoints must 
return `200/OK` if the operation completed successfully.
 
### POST /receipts
**Effect:** Create a new receipt.  Every receipt should have an `UNSIGNED INT` primary key which 
is returned by this endpoint. No duplicate detection or uniqueness constraints are required.  New 
receipts are un-tagged. 

**Request Body:**
```javascript
{
    "merchant": "foo", /* required! */
    "amount": 22.45    /* optional, must be valid decimal if provided */
}
```
**Response:**
```
33  /* <-- this is the id of the newly-created un-tagged receipt */
```
 
### GET /receipts
**Effect:** Return a list of all receipts in the system.  

**Request Body:**
*None*

**Response:**
```json
[
  {
    "id": 5,
    "merchant": "Gerry's Ice Cream",
    "amount": 22.50
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "merchant": "Starbux"
  }
]
```

### PUT /tags/{tag}
**Effect:** Categorize a receipt by tagging it.  Tags are simple short character strings that are user-defined, 
(not pre-defined). To associate a receipt with two tags, this endpoint would need to be executed twice - once for each tag.  If a receipt is *already* tagged with a specific tag (say "t1"), the effect of hitting this endpoint (for "t1") will be to un-tag the receipt for the specific tag, but no other tags will be affected. 

**Request Body**
```json
35  /* <-- this is the id of the receipt to tag / untag */
```

**Response**
*None* / no response is required from the server beyond a 200/OK HTTP Response code.  To do this using 
the `JAX-RS` framework, simply declare your endpoint function to return `void`.  e.g.

```java
@PUT
@Path("/tags/{tag}")
public void toggleTag(@PathParam("tag") String tagName) {
    // <your code here
}

```

### GET /tags/{tag}
**Effect:** Returns a list of all receipts associated with a tag, an empty list if there are none.

**Request Body:** *None*

**Response:**
```json
[
  {
    "id": 39,
    "merchant": "Coin-Op Laundromat",
    "amount": 2.50
  }
]
```


### GET /netid
**Effect:** Returns your netid as a string for grading purposes.

**Request Body:** *None*

**Response:**
```json
af494
```


## 4. Deploy your Code
You need to build a Docker image containing your compiled application code plus any dependencies.  The beauty of 
Docker is that you can run this image locally to verify it is functioning correctly, and when you deploy it to the 
cloud it should work in exactly the same way.  Beauty is not without pain however: 
1. To build an image you must have docker installed and you need to 
construct a working `Dockerfile`.  A working example will be made available 
in the `skeleton` repo shortly.  
2. Once the image is built you must upload the image to a Docker Repository so that AWS can find and pull the image.
Essentially you only need to create an account at hub.docker.com and execute a `docker push <tagged_image_name`
3. You must setup an AWS ECS Cluster
4. You need to create a Task Definition and a Service with the name of your Docker image in the Docker Repository 
5. Test your API.  Autograder to follow shortly

Although Amazon has an [ECS Tutorial](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ECS_GetStarted.html) 
available, I think [this fantastic tutorial](https://start.jcolemorrison.com/the-hitchhikers-guide-to-aws-ecs-and-docker/#summary-docker-analogy)
which walks through all the steps and concepts is much better.  You can safely ignore the ELB/ALB load balancing steps. 

## 5. Submit
Create a PR for `README.md`, modifying your row in the **Students** section by *replacing* the URL from the first assignment with the url of your *shiny new API*.

## 6. Autograder

[Auto-grader for the REST API](grade_a2.py) is up. This is a Python script, and hopefully it will work consistently 
accross all platforms. How to run?
```bash
$ python grade_a2.py <your-url>
```
Here, `<your-url>` should be your server url (without the angle brackets), e.g., 
`python grade_a2.py http://localhost:8080`. 
You might need to install a Python library called `requests` used for making http requests very easily. 
Installing library in python is simple. You can use `pip`, a Python package manager, do install `request` library.
`pip install requests`. You can install `pip` from https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/.

<!-- (I will update this script to check the CircleCI badge too. So, stay tuned.)-->
**UPDATE**
Added support to check CircleCI badge directly from the Github. Once your PR is approved, you can
run `python grade_a2.py -github <your-netid>`.  It will fetch the submitted URL, and the circle CI
badge and perform the tests that we will check during grading.



