**NOT COMPLETE! DON'T REFER TO THIS. CHECK (README.md)[../../README.md] FOR A4 RELEASE**

# Assignment 4: Connect to Google Vision API
This is the last assignment of the course. We will finish our work of building a
receipt storing service by extending the functionality with Optical Character
Recognition (OCR) using [Google Cloud Vision
API](https://cloud.google.com/vision/).  

**TL;DR**  
The goal is to add a button to capture image of a receipt, process the image to
extract the merchant and the total amount, and finally add the receipt to the
list of receipts. 

## 0. Setup Google Vision API
   Create an account with Google Cloud Platform, enable the Vision API. Follow
   the steps [here](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/tutorials/ocr).
   Fetch the updated [`Skeleton`](https://github.com/amfleming/skeleton) code,
   which is already updated with a controller for queering Vision API. You have
   to update it with correct `api_key` from your account.

## 1. Extracting merchant name and total price
   Google OCR will return the text recovered from the captured image.  From the
   returned text you have to extract the merchant name and the total price. We
   will use two simple heuristic to extract these information. Get the extracted
   text sorted vertically from top to bottom. Take the first line of text as
   `merchant`, and the last decimal number (of the format `23.45`, or `43.00`)
   as the `total`.   
   **TODO**: Add the picture of the receipt, show the parsed values, and final results. 
   

## 2. Capturing a photo of a receipt
   You should have a button your page (preferably beside the current add button
   for receipts) for starting the camera.  The button should be selectable by
   the selector `$('#start-camera')`. On clicking the button it should start the
   camera.  There should be a button selectable by `$('#take-pic')`, clicking
   which will capture the photo. Also, once the `#take-pic` is clicked it should
   trigger a call to the backend to run OCR on the taken image using Google
   Vision API. Finally, update the page with the new receipt.    
   

   There should be a cancel button that should close the video and should cancel
   the process of adding a receipt. The id of that button shouold be
   `take-pic-cancel`.


   
## 3. Submitting an image of a receipt
   In addition to capture an image, you should also support uploading an image
   of a receipt and process in the same way as said above. The button should
   have an id `upload-img`, and shouold be selectable by `$('#upload-img')` and
   respond to click event. The cacncel button should have id
   `upload-img-cancel`.


## 4. Deploy in AWS
   Finally deploy your updated code in AWS.  Update the
   [`README.md`](../../README.md) **if and only if** your URL changed. We will
   grade your assignment using that URL you attached in the
   [`README.md`](../../README.md) file. 

## 5. Auto grader
  We will release an auto grader using `Selenium` soon. 
**Wait for this part to be updated before you start using `grade_a4.py`.**

